README.md, before:

# hydrate-text

A small, dependency-free and strongly typed template engine.

[![Version][version-badge]][package-link]
[![Downloads][downloads-badge]][downloads-link]
[![Depend packages][depend-badge]][depend-link]

[![Minified size][min-size-badge]][size-link]
[![Minified and gzipped size][minzip-size-badge]][size-link]

[![Types][types-badge]][types-link]
[![Code Coverage][coverage-badge]][coverage-link]
[![Known Vulnerabilities][vulnerabilities-badge]][vulnerabilities-link]

[version-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/v/hydrate-text
[package-link]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/hydrate-text
[downloads-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/dt/hydrate-text?color=blue
[downloads-link]: https://npmcharts.com/compare/hydrate-text?interval=30
[depend-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/dependents/hydrate-text
[depend-link]: https://www.npmjs.com/browse/depended/hydrate-text
[min-size-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/bundlephobia/min/hydrate-text
[minzip-size-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/hydrate-text
[size-link]: https://bundlephobia.com/package/hydrate-text
[types-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/types/hydrate-text
[types-link]: https://github.com/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text/blob/main/src/types.ts
[coverage-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/coveralls/c/github/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text
[coverage-link]: https://coveralls.io/github/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text
[vulnerabilities-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/snyk/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text
[vulnerabilities-link]: https://snyk.io/test/github/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text

## Features

- **Light-weight**. Less than 1 KiB (actual size depends on imported functions).
- **Dependency-free**. Only bundled JavaScript files and TypeScript type declarations.
- **Tree-shakable**. Only imported code comes to your bundle.
- **ES Modules** and **CommonJS** syntax are supported.
- Strongly typed with **TypeScript**. All types are exported alongside with the core functions.
- **Flexible interpolation options change**. Change variables' markers in each function or use a special function to configure them once for further usage.

## Examples

```typescript
// ES Modules syntax
import { hydrateText } from "hydrate-text";
// CommonJS syntax
const hydrateText = require("hydrate-text").hydrateText;

// 'Hello, John!'
console.log(
  hydrateText("Hello, {username}!", {
    username: "John",
  }),
);

// '/users/42'
console.log(
  hydrateText(
    "/users/:id",
    { id: 42 },
    {
      prefix: ":",
      suffix: "",
    },
  ),
);
```

TypeScript checks that all the variables defined in the given string are provided.

```typescript
console.log(
  hydrateText(
    "Hello, {username}!",
    // No errors
    {
      username: "John",
    },
  ),
);

console.log(
  hydrateText(
    "Hello, {username}!",
    // Error: `username` is missing
    {},
  ),
);
```

Interpolation options can be configured via `configureHydrateText` function,
that returns `hydrateText` function as a result.

```typescript
import { configureHydrateText } from "hydrate-text";

const hydrateRoute = configureHydrateText({ prefix: ":" });

// '/users/42'
console.log(hydrateRoute("/users/:id", { id: 42 }));

// '/users/42'
console.log(
  hydrateRoute(
    "/users/(id)",
    { id: 42 },
    {
      prefix: "(",
      suffix: ")",
    },
  ),
);
```

Check out other [correct](./src/tests/index.types.ts) and [incorrect](./src/tests/index.errors.ts) usage examples.

## Installation

### npm

```shell
npm install hydrate-text
```

### Yarn

```shell
yarn add hydrate-text
```

## API (simplified)

```typescript
type ValueType = string | boolean | number | bigint;

interface InterpolationOptions {
  prefix: string;
  suffix: string;
}

function hydrateText(
  text: string,
  variables?: Record<string, ValueType>,
  interpolationOptions?: InterpolationOptions,
) {}

function configureHydrateText(
  interpolationOptions: InterpolationOptions,
) => typeof hydrateText;
```

Check out [types.ts](./src/types.ts) file for more information.

## Background

[Why I wrote "hydrate-text" library](https://vasilii-kovalev.github.io/blog/posts/why-i-wrote-hydrate-text-library)

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add "Known issues" section (#28)
* Add "Known issues" section

README.md, after:

# hydrate-text

A small, dependency-free and strongly typed template engine.

[![Version][version-badge]][package-link]
[![Downloads][downloads-badge]][downloads-link]
[![Depend packages][depend-badge]][depend-link]

[![Minified size][min-size-badge]][size-link]
[![Minified and gzipped size][minzip-size-badge]][size-link]

[![Types][types-badge]][types-link]
[![Code Coverage][coverage-badge]][coverage-link]
[![Known Vulnerabilities][vulnerabilities-badge]][vulnerabilities-link]

[version-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/v/hydrate-text
[package-link]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/hydrate-text
[downloads-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/dt/hydrate-text?color=blue
[downloads-link]: https://npmcharts.com/compare/hydrate-text?interval=30
[depend-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/dependents/hydrate-text
[depend-link]: https://www.npmjs.com/browse/depended/hydrate-text
[min-size-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/bundlephobia/min/hydrate-text
[minzip-size-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/hydrate-text
[size-link]: https://bundlephobia.com/package/hydrate-text
[types-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/npm/types/hydrate-text
[types-link]: https://github.com/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text/blob/main/src/types.ts
[coverage-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/coveralls/c/github/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text
[coverage-link]: https://coveralls.io/github/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text
[vulnerabilities-badge]: https://flat.badgen.net/snyk/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text
[vulnerabilities-link]: https://snyk.io/test/github/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text

## Features

- **Light-weight**. Less than 1 KiB (actual size depends on imported functions).
- **Dependency-free**. Only bundled JavaScript files and TypeScript type declarations.
- **Tree-shakable**. Only imported code comes to your bundle.
- **ES Modules** and **CommonJS** syntax are supported.
- Strongly typed with **TypeScript**. All types are exported alongside with the core functions.
- **Flexible interpolation options change**. Change variables' markers in each function or use a special function to configure them once for further usage.

## Examples

```typescript
// ES Modules syntax
import { hydrateText } from "hydrate-text";
// CommonJS syntax
const hydrateText = require("hydrate-text").hydrateText;

// 'Hello, John!'
console.log(
  hydrateText("Hello, {username}!", {
    username: "John",
  }),
);

// '/users/42'
console.log(
  hydrateText(
    "/users/:id",
    { id: 42 },
    {
      prefix: ":",
      suffix: "",
    },
  ),
);
```

TypeScript checks that all the variables defined in the given string are provided.

```typescript
console.log(
  hydrateText(
    "Hello, {username}!",
    // No errors
    {
      username: "John",
    },
  ),
);

console.log(
  hydrateText(
    "Hello, {username}!",
    // Error: `username` is missing
    {},
  ),
);
```

Interpolation options can be configured via `configureHydrateText` function,
that returns `hydrateText` function as a result.

```typescript
import { configureHydrateText } from "hydrate-text";

const hydrateRoute = configureHydrateText({ prefix: ":" });

// '/users/42'
console.log(hydrateRoute("/users/:id", { id: 42 }));

// '/users/42'
console.log(
  hydrateRoute(
    "/users/(id)",
    { id: 42 },
    {
      prefix: "(",
      suffix: ")",
    },
  ),
);
```

Check out other [correct](./src/tests/index.types.ts) and [incorrect](./src/tests/index.errors.ts) usage examples.

## Installation

### npm

```shell
npm install hydrate-text
```

### Yarn

```shell
yarn add hydrate-text
```

## API (simplified)

```typescript
type ValueType = string | boolean | number | bigint;

interface InterpolationOptions {
  prefix: string;
  suffix: string;
}

function hydrateText(
  text: string,
  variables?: Record<string, ValueType>,
  interpolationOptions?: InterpolationOptions,
) {}

function configureHydrateText(
  interpolationOptions: InterpolationOptions,
) => typeof hydrateText;
```

Check out [types.ts](./src/types.ts) file for more information.

## Known issues

- If a string potentially has 8+ variables, an error "Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite" can occur. Until it is resolved, it is better to break the string into several pieces to avoid the error.

  Tracking the issue here: [Type instantiation is excessively deep and possibly infinite](https://github.com/vasilii-kovalev/hydrate-text/issues/27)

## Background

[Why I wrote "hydrate-text" library](https://vasilii-kovalev.github.io/blog/posts/why-i-wrote-hydrate-text-library)

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
